Deep Dive — Inside Anthropic: What You Need to Know
Before Joining the Policy Team. Welcome to a deep dive
episode. Today, I'm going to walk you through everything you
need to know about Anthropic — not the surface-level stuff,
but the structural details, the internal dynamics, and the strategic
context that matters for someone applying to work on the
public policy and public benefit team. This is going to
be a longer episode, so let's get into it. Chapter
One: The Founding Story and Why It Matters. Anthropic was
founded in 2021 by a group of researchers who left
OpenAI. The two co-founders are Dario and Daniela Amodei —
brother and sister. Dario was VP of Research at OpenAI.
Daniela was VP of Safety and Policy there. They left
because they believed OpenAI was not taking safety seriously enough.
That origin story matters because it defines everything about how
Anthropic operates. This is a company that exists because its
founders believed the most important A-I lab in the world
wasn't being careful enough. Every major decision Anthropic makes —
from the Responsible Scaling Policy to the Pentagon dispute —
traces back to that founding conviction. The other co-founders include
Jack Clark, who was OpenAI's Policy Director and is now
a journalist-turned-policy-leader; Tom Brown, who helped build G-P-T-3; Chris Olah,
the pioneer of mechanistic interpretability; Sam McCandlish, a theoretical physicist;
and Jared Kaplan, who co-authored the famous scaling laws paper.
This is a leadership team with deep technical credibility and,
unusually for a tech company, genuine policy experience. Chapter Two:
How the Company Is Organized. Anthropic is still relatively small
— roughly eleven to fifteen hundred employees as of April
2026, despite generating around thirty billion dollars in annual revenue.
That's an extraordinary ratio. It means individual contributors have outsized
impact. The company is organized into several core divisions. The
Research team handles mechanistic interpretability, scaling laws, and alignment science.
Product Engineering builds Claude dot A-I, the A-P-I, Claude Code,
and Cowork. There's an Infrastructure team led by the new
C-T-O Rahul Patil, who came from Stripe. The Safety and
Alignment team is led by Jan Leike, who joined from
OpenAI's Superalignment project in May 2024. Then there's Anthropic Labs
— this is the experimental product incubator co-led by Mike
Krieger, the Instagram co-founder, and Ben Mann, one of the
co-founders. Krieger stepped down as Chief Product Officer in January
2026 to run Labs. It started with just two people
in mid-2024 and is now scaling aggressively. At a Cisco
summit in February 2026, Krieger claimed that Claude is now
writing Claude — that internal development processes are one hundred
percent Claude-powered. And critically for you, there's the Anthropic Institute
and the Public Policy team. More on those in a
moment. The board includes Dario and Daniela plus external directors:
Jay Kreps from Confluent, Yasmin Razavi from Spark Capital, Reed
Hastings — the Netflix co-founder — and Chris Liddell, the
former Microsoft C-F-O. Chapter Three: The Anthropic Institute — The
Team You'd Be Joining. The Anthropic Institute was announced on
March 11th, 2026 — barely a month ago. It's led
by Jack Clark, the co-founder, who transitioned from Head of
Public Policy to Head of Public Benefit. The Institute consolidates
three existing research groups into a single organization. First, the
Frontier Red Team, which stress-tests A-I systems to understand their
capabilities and limits. Second, the Societal Impacts team, which studies
real-world A-I use and deployment effects. And third, the Economic
Research group, which tracks A-I's impact on jobs and the
broader economy. They're also developing two new research areas: A-I
Progress forecasting, and A-I interaction with legal systems and rule
of law. That second area is led by Matt Botvinick,
who was the Senior Director of Research at Google DeepMind
and is now a Resident Fellow at Yale Law School.
He brings serious credibility on how A-I systems interact with
regulatory and legal frameworks. Other new hires to the Institute
include Anton Korinek, an economics professor from the University of
Virginia studying how advanced A-I reshapes economic activity, and Zoë
Hitzig, who previously studied A-I's social and economic impacts at
OpenAI. The Public Policy team itself is led by Sarah
Heck. Her background is remarkable: she was at the White
House National Security Council handling global entrepreneurship and public diplomacy
policy, she was at the State Department, and she was
at Stripe. She's now leading the opening of Anthropic's first
D-C office in Spring 2026. Sarah's five stated policy priorities
are: model safety and transparency, energy ratepayer protections, infrastructure investments,
export controls, and democratic leadership in A-I. These give you
a concrete sense of what the policy team works on
daily. There's also the National Security and Public Sector Advisory
Council, announced in August 2025. The members are heavyweights: Patrick
Shanahan, the former Acting Secretary of Defense. David Cohen, the
former Deputy C-I-A Director. Lisa Gordon-Hagerty, former head of the
National Nuclear Security Administration. Dave Luber, former N-S-A Cybersecurity Director
with a 38-year career. And notably, Roy Blunt — a
former United States Senator from Missouri. Your state. That's a
natural connection point. Chapter Four: The Responsible Scaling Policy. The
R-S-P is Anthropic's flagship governance framework, and it's important you
understand it well. Anthropic was the first A-I company to
publish a frontier safety governance framework, back in September 2023.
Since then, eleven other companies have adopted similar approaches. The
current version is 3.1, effective April 2nd, 2026. The core
principle is proportional protection — safeguards scale with potential risks.
As models get more capable, they require stronger safety measures.
This is operationalized through Anthropic Safety Levels, or A-S-Ls. These
are modeled on biosafety levels. A-S-L-3 is currently the highest
activated level, and it's applied to Claude Opus 4 specifically
to prevent C-B-R-N weapons development risks. Version 3.0, released in
February 2026, introduced several new elements: Frontier Safety Roadmaps with
detailed safety goals, Risk Reports that quantify risk across all
deployed models, and A-S-L-3 Deployment Standards. The R-S-P has influenced
real legislation — California's S-B-53, New York's R-A-I-S-E Act, and
provisions in the E-U A-I Act. But — and this
is important for interview prep — the R-S-P has also
faced criticism. Time Magazine ran an exclusive reporting that version
3.0 dropped some hard commitments present in earlier versions. C-N-N
and the O-E-C-D also covered this as a potential weakening
of safety commitments, notably during the Pentagon dispute. Being able
to acknowledge this tension — believing in the mission while
understanding the criticism — shows the kind of critical thinking
Anthropic values. Chapter Five: The Pentagon Dispute — The Defining
Crisis. This is the most consequential active crisis at Anthropic,
and understanding it thoroughly is essential. Here's the timeline. In
July 2025, Anthropic signed a 200 million dollar contract with
the Pentagon. In September, deployment negotiations began for the Gen
A-I dot mil platform. Then in February 2026, Anthropic refused
to grant the Pentagon unfettered access to Claude. Anthropic maintained
two red lines. First: no fully autonomous weapons. Claude cannot
power independent weapon systems. Second: no mass domestic surveillance. Claude
is restricted from large-scale domestic monitoring. The Pentagon wanted access
for, quote, "all lawful purposes." Anthropic said no to those
two specific categories. The escalation was swift. On February 27th,
2026, Trump ordered all federal agencies to immediately cease use
of Anthropic's technology. In March, Defense Secretary Hegseth designated Anthropic
as a, quote, "supply chain risk to national security" —
a classification historically reserved for foreign adversaries like Huawei. Anthropic
became the first American company to receive this designation. The
legal status is complex. A California district court blocked the
supply chain designation, calling it potentially illegal retaliation. But the
D-C Circuit appeals court refused to stay the designation. Defense
contractors are now caught between conflicting rulings. Here's the irony:
the dispute boosted consumer adoption. The Washington Post reported that
the fight, quote, "made Claude hugely popular." And OpenAI announced
a Pentagon deal shortly after Anthropic was banned, sharpening the
competitive and philosophical contrast between the two companies. Anthropic's official
response, published as "Where We Stand on the Department of
War," reaffirmed that military personnel — not A-I systems —
should make operational decisions. They offered to provide models at
nominal cost during the transition. This dispute is the political
environment the Public Policy team operates in every day. Your
state government experience — understanding how procurement works, how agencies
respond to executive directives, how policy decisions cascade through bureaucracies
— is directly relevant to navigating this landscape. Chapter Six:
Governance — The Long-Term Benefit Trust. Anthropic has a genuinely
novel governance structure that's worth understanding. The Long-Term Benefit Trust
is an independent body of five financially disinterested trustees. It
holds a special class of stock — Class T —
that grants authority to elect and remove board members. The
Trust is designed to achieve board majority within four years.
The purpose is to prevent Anthropic from abandoning its safety
mission under commercial pressure. As the company scales — remember,
thirty billion in revenue and growing — the temptation to
prioritize speed over safety increases. The Trust is designed to
matter most when the stakes are highest. Current trustees include
Neil Buddy Shah, the C-E-O of the Clinton Health Access
Initiative, and Kanika Bahl, C-E-O of Evidence Action. Former trustees
include Jason Matheny, the C-E-O of RAND, and Paul Christiano,
who founded the Alignment Research Center and later became Head
of A-I Safety at the U-S A-I Safety Institute. This
structure is fundamentally different from OpenAI's approach. OpenAI operates as
a nonprofit with a capped-return for-profit subsidiary. Anthropic chose a
Public Benefit Corporation with a purpose trust. Both are experiments
in A-I governance. Neither has been fully tested yet. Chapter
Seven: The Research That Matters Most. Let me walk you
through the research publications that are most relevant for your
role. First, interpretability. Chris Olah's team published "Scaling Monosemanticity" in
May 2024 — they used sparse autoencoders to extract tens
of millions of interpretable features from Claude 3 Sonnet. These
features are multilingual, multimodal, and abstract. Crucially, they found features
related to deception, sycophancy, and bias — meaning they can
potentially detect and control these behaviors. M-I-T Technology Review named
mechanistic interpretability a Breakthrough Technology of 2026. Second, the Sleeper
Agents paper from January 2024. This showed that deceptive behaviors
can be intentionally inserted into language models and persist through
R-L-H-F, supervised fine-tuning, and adversarial training. Standard safety techniques don't
remove embedded deception. This is the fire alarm that motivates
much of the interpretability research. Third, Constitutional A-I — Anthropic's
foundational safety technique. Instead of needing humans to evaluate harmful
outputs, the A-I critiques itself against written principles. C-L-I-O extended
this concept with public deliberation — crowdsourced alignment through democratic
participation. Fourth, the Economic Futures Program. Launched June 2025, this
offers research grants up to fifty thousand dollars for empirical
A-I economic impact research. It includes the Anthropic Economic Index,
which tracks A-I adoption across U-S states and occupations. This
connects directly to your fiscal analysis background. You've spent eight
years analyzing how policy decisions affect state budgets. The Economic
Index is measuring how A-I affects state economies. That's a
natural, credible bridge. Chapter Eight: Dario's Three Essays — The
Intellectual Framework. Dario Amodei has published three major essays that
together form the intellectual framework of the company. "The Urgency
of Interpretability" came first, in July 2023. It calls for
urgent investment in interpretability research, arguing it's more important than
releasing new models. The goal: reliably detect most A-I model
problems by 2027. "Machines of Loving Grace" came in October
2024. At fourteen thousand words, it envisions positive A-I futures
— breakthroughs in biology, neuroscience, economic development, and global peace.
The key move is that Dario, known as a safety
hawk, is making the optimistic case. This isn't cheerleading; it's
a safety researcher articulating what they're fighting for. "The Adolescence
of Technology" is the most recent, from January 2026. At
twenty thousand words, it warns of civilization-level risks from powerful
A-I potentially arriving by 2027. The title captures the thesis:
A-I is in its adolescence — powerful enough to cause
real harm, not yet mature enough to be trusted. Read
all three in sequence. The arc is: safety as priority,
then optimistic vision, then urgent call to action. Your application's
framing — "A-I needs to go well" — echoes this
progression directly. Chapter Nine: What This All Means For Your
Application. Let me pull this together with some strategic context.
You're applying to a team that sits at the intersection
of everything we've discussed. The Strategy and Operations role on
the Public Policy and Public Benefit team means you'd be
involved in the operational mechanics of Anthropic's policy work —
the Economic Futures Program, the Institute's research agenda, government stakeholder
relationships, and the daily reality of navigating the Pentagon dispute
and federal policy. Your competitive advantages are specific. State-level policy
expertise is genuinely rare at A-I companies. Most policy hires
come from D-C think tanks or federal agencies. You know
how state legislative processes actually work, how fiscal notes get
written, how agencies respond to mandates. As A-I regulation moves
to the states — California's S-B-1047, Colorado's A-I Act —
that expertise becomes more valuable, not less. You've personally integrated
Claude into government operations. That's lived experience that policy researchers
at Anthropic are studying from the outside. You've seen it
from the inside. And you understand stakeholder management in politically
complex environments. Coordinating seventeen state departments on budget cycles during
legislative sessions, under pressure from a Governor's office — that's
harder than most corporate equivalents because the incentives are less
aligned and the politics are literal. The most important thing
you can demonstrate in the application and interviews is specific
knowledge paired with genuine enthusiasm. Not "I love A-I" —
every applicant says that. Rather: "I've read the Anthropic Institute
announcement, I know the Economic Futures Program connects to my
fiscal analysis background, I understand the R-S-P framework, and I've
thought about how state government experience translates to the policy
challenges you're navigating right now." That's the depth that separates
you from the stack. This has been a deep dive
into Anthropic for your application to the Strategy and Operations
role on the Public Policy and Public Benefit team. Good
luck, Jacob. Go submit that application.